# This file was autogenerated by uv via the following command:
#    uv pip compile pyproject.toml --extra test --extra docs --output-file .\requirements.txt
#    manually removed qcodes it self from the requirements and added version and platform specific env markers
#    for pywin32
alabaster==1.0.0
    # via sphinx
asttokens==2.4.1
    # via stack-data
attrs==24.2.0
    # via
    #   hypothesis
    #   jsonschema
    #   referencing
autodocsumm==0.2.13
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
babel==2.16.0
    # via sphinx
beautifulsoup4==4.12.3
    # via
    #   furo
    #   nbconvert
bleach==6.1.0
    # via nbconvert
broadbean==0.14.0
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   qcodes
certifi==2024.7.4
    # via requests
cf-xarray==0.9.4
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   qcodes
charset-normalizer==3.3.2
    # via requests
click==8.1.7
    # via
    #   dask
    #   towncrier
cloudpickle==3.0.0
    # via dask
colorama==0.4.6
    # via
    #   click
    #   ipython
    #   pytest
    #   sphinx
    #   tqdm
comm==0.2.2
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipywidgets
contourpy==1.2.1
    # via matplotlib
coverage==7.6.1
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   pytest-cov
cycler==0.12.1
    # via matplotlib
dask==2024.8.1
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   qcodes
debugpy==1.8.5
    # via ipykernel
decorator==5.1.1
    # via ipython
deepdiff==7.0.1
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
defusedxml==0.7.1
    # via nbconvert
deprecated==1.2.14
    # via opentelemetry-api
docutils==0.21.2
    # via
    #   nbsphinx
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinx-jsonschema
execnet==2.1.1
    # via pytest-xdist
executing==2.0.1
    # via stack-data
fastjsonschema==2.20.0
    # via nbformat
fonttools==4.53.1
    # via matplotlib
fsspec==2024.6.1
    # via dask
furo==2024.8.6
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
h5netcdf==1.3.0
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   qcodes
h5py==3.11.0
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   h5netcdf
    #   hickle
    #   qcodes
    #   qcodes-loop
hickle==5.0.3
    # via qcodes-loop
hypothesis==6.111.1
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
idna==3.7
    # via requests
imagesize==1.4.1
    # via sphinx
importlib-metadata==7.1.0
    # via opentelemetry-api
incremental==24.7.2
    # via towncrier
iniconfig==2.0.0
    # via pytest
ipykernel==6.29.5
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   qcodes
ipython==8.26.0
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipywidgets
    #   qcodes
    #   qcodes-loop
ipywidgets==8.1.3
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   qcodes
jedi==0.19.1
    # via ipython
jinja2==3.1.4
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbsphinx
    #   sphinx
    #   towncrier
jsonpointer==3.0.0
    # via sphinx-jsonschema
jsonref==1.1.0
    # via zhinst-toolkit
jsonschema==4.23.0
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   nbformat
    #   qcodes
    #   zhinst-toolkit
jsonschema-specifications==2023.12.1
    # via jsonschema
jupyter-client==8.6.2
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   nbclient
jupyter-core==5.7.2
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-client
    #   nbclient
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbformat
jupyterlab-pygments==0.3.0
    # via nbconvert
jupyterlab-widgets==3.0.11
    # via ipywidgets
kiwisolver==1.4.5
    # via matplotlib
lazy-loader==0.4
    # via qcodes-loop
libcst==1.4.0
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
locket==1.0.0
    # via partd
lxml==5.3.0
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
lxml-stubs==0.5.1
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
markupsafe==2.1.5
    # via
    #   jinja2
    #   nbconvert
matplotlib==3.9.2
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   broadbean
    #   qcodes
    #   qcodes-loop
matplotlib-inline==0.1.7
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipython
mistune==3.0.2
    # via nbconvert
mypy==1.11.1
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
mypy-extensions==1.0.0
    # via mypy
nbclient==0.10.0
    # via nbconvert
nbconvert==7.16.4
    # via nbsphinx
nbformat==5.10.4
    # via
    #   nbclient
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbsphinx
nbsphinx==0.9.5
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
nest-asyncio==1.6.0
    # via ipykernel
numpy==2.1.0
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   broadbean
    #   contourpy
    #   h5py
    #   hickle
    #   matplotlib
    #   pandas
    #   pandas-stubs
    #   pyarrow
    #   qcodes
    #   qcodes-loop
    #   scipy
    #   xarray
    #   zhinst-core
    #   zhinst-qcodes
    #   zhinst-timing-models
    #   zhinst-toolkit
    #   zhinst-utils
opentelemetry-api==1.26.0
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   qcodes
ordered-set==4.1.0
    # via deepdiff
packaging==24.1
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   dask
    #   h5netcdf
    #   ipykernel
    #   lazy-loader
    #   matplotlib
    #   nbconvert
    #   pytest
    #   pytest-rerunfailures
    #   qcodes
    #   sphinx
    #   versioningit
    #   xarray
pandas==2.2.2
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   qcodes
    #   qcodes-loop
    #   xarray
pandas-stubs==2.2.2.240807
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
pandocfilters==1.5.1
    # via nbconvert
parso==0.8.4
    # via jedi
partd==1.4.2
    # via dask
pillow==10.4.0
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   matplotlib
    #   qcodes
platformdirs==4.2.2
    # via jupyter-core
pluggy==1.5.0
    # via pytest
prompt-toolkit==3.0.47
    # via ipython
psutil==6.0.0
    # via ipykernel
pure-eval==0.2.3
    # via stack-data
pyarrow==17.0.0
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   qcodes
pyelftools==0.31
    # via zhinst-toolkit
pygments==2.18.0
    # via
    #   furo
    #   ipython
    #   nbconvert
    #   sphinx
pyparsing==3.1.2
    # via matplotlib
pytest==8.3.2
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   pytest-asyncio
    #   pytest-cov
    #   pytest-mock
    #   pytest-rerunfailures
    #   pytest-xdist
pytest-asyncio==0.23.8
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
pytest-cov==5.0.0
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
pytest-mock==3.14.0
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
pytest-rerunfailures==14.0
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
pytest-xdist==3.6.1
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
python-dateutil==2.9.0.post0
    # via
    #   jupyter-client
    #   matplotlib
    #   pandas
pytz==2024.1
    # via pandas
pyvisa==1.14.1
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   pyvisa-sim
    #   qcodes
pyvisa-sim==0.6.0
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
pywin32==306; sys_platform == 'win32'
    # via jupyter-core
pyyaml==6.0.2
    # via
    #   dask
    #   libcst
    #   pyvisa-sim
    #   sphinx-jsonschema
pyzmq==26.1.0
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-client
qcodes-loop==0.1.3
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
referencing==0.35.1
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jsonschema-specifications
    #   types-jsonschema
requests==2.32.3
    # via
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinx-jsonschema
rpds-py==0.20.0
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   referencing
ruamel-yaml==0.18.6
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   qcodes
ruamel-yaml-clib==0.2.8
    # via ruamel-yaml
schema==0.7.7
    # via broadbean
scipy==1.14.0
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
setuptools==72.2.0
    # via incremental
six==1.16.0
    # via
    #   asttokens
    #   bleach
    #   python-dateutil
snowballstemmer==2.2.0
    # via sphinx
sortedcontainers==2.4.0
    # via hypothesis
soupsieve==2.6
    # via beautifulsoup4
sphinx==8.0.2
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   autodocsumm
    #   furo
    #   nbsphinx
    #   sphinx-basic-ng
    #   sphinx-favicon
    #   sphinx-issues
    #   sphinxcontrib-towncrier
sphinx-basic-ng==1.0.0b2
    # via furo
sphinx-favicon==1.0.1
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
sphinx-issues==4.1.0
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
sphinx-jsonschema==1.19.1
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
sphinxcontrib-applehelp==2.0.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-devhelp==2.0.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-htmlhelp==2.1.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-jsmath==1.0.1
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-qthelp==2.0.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-serializinghtml==2.0.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-towncrier==0.4.0a0
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
stack-data==0.6.3
    # via ipython
stringparser==0.7
    # via pyvisa-sim
tabulate==0.9.0
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   qcodes
tinycss2==1.3.0
    # via nbconvert
toolz==0.12.1
    # via
    #   dask
    #   partd
tornado==6.4.1
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-client
    #   qcodes
towncrier==23.11.0
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   sphinxcontrib-towncrier
tqdm==4.66.5
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   qcodes
traitlets==5.14.3
    # via
    #   comm
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipython
    #   ipywidgets
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-core
    #   matplotlib-inline
    #   nbclient
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbformat
    #   nbsphinx
types-jsonschema==4.23.0.20240813
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
types-pytz==2024.1.0.20240417
    # via pandas-stubs
types-pywin32==306.0.0.20240806
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
types-requests==2.32.0.20240712
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
types-setuptools==71.1.0.20240818
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
types-tabulate==0.9.0.20240106
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
types-tqdm==4.66.0.20240417
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
typing-extensions==4.12.2
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   mypy
    #   pyvisa
    #   pyvisa-sim
    #   qcodes
    #   stringparser
    #   zhinst-core
    #   zhinst-qcodes
    #   zhinst-toolkit
tzdata==2024.1
    # via pandas
uncertainties==3.2.2
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   qcodes
urllib3==2.2.2
    # via
    #   requests
    #   types-requests
versioningit==3.1.2
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   broadbean
    #   qcodes
    #   qcodes-loop
wcwidth==0.2.13
    # via prompt-toolkit
webencodings==0.5.1
    # via
    #   bleach
    #   tinycss2
websockets==12.0
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   qcodes
widgetsnbextension==4.0.11
    # via ipywidgets
wrapt==1.16.0
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   deprecated
    #   qcodes
xarray==2024.7.0
    # via
    #   qcodes (pyproject.toml)
    #   cf-xarray
    #   qcodes
    #   qcodes-loop
zhinst-core==24.7.61797
    # via
    #   zhinst-toolkit
    #   zhinst-utils
zhinst-qcodes==0.5.3
    # via qcodes (pyproject.toml)
zhinst-timing-models==24.4.57831
    # via zhinst-utils
zhinst-toolkit==0.6.4
    # via zhinst-qcodes
zhinst-utils==0.4.1
    # via zhinst-toolkit
zipp==3.20.0
    # via importlib-metadata
