Changelog for QCoDeS 0.15.0
===========================

The June 2020 release of QCoDeS. This release also includes all the changes
mentioned in alpha release of June 2020 (:doc:`0.15.0a1`).

Breaking Changes:
_________________

* ``GroupParameter.group``, ``Group.parameters`` and ``Group.instrument`` are
  now all read only properties (#2031).
* The public attributes ``Group.get_cmd`` and ``Group.get_cmd`` have
  been removed (#2031).
* It is now an error to supply get/set_cmd, if get/set_raw is not abstract
  (#2015).
* The sweep parameters such as 'sweep_mode', 'sweep_start', 'sweep_end',
  'sweep_steps' in Keysight B1520A driver is moved from  class is moved from
  B1520A class to CVSweeper class (#2044).

New drivers:
____________

* Add Zurich Instruments drivers. The old ZIUHFLI driver is deprecated. The
  actual implementation is in
  `zhinst-qcodes <https://github.com/zhinst/zhinst-qcodes/>`_
  as described in
  `this blog <https://blogs.zhinst
  .com/andrea/2020/05/24/control-your-measurements-with-qcodes-and-labber/>`_
  (#2025).



Improved drivers:
_________________

* New features are added to Keysight B1517A driver to allow IV
  staircase sweep measurements (#2028).
* Various improvements are done on Keysight B1520A driver, such as, parsing
  correctly the wrong output floats ('-0.-1') from the instrument until new
  firmware release (#2023), improved testing (#2027), fixing spot
  measurement of capacitance checking for wrong impedance model, and working
  with ac_dc_volt_monitor=True (#2020), CVSweepMeasurements supports all
  impedance models (#2047).
* The measurement status are added to current and voltage parameters of
  B1517A driver (#2051).
* Added a method to obtain the measurement status summary of IV and CV Sweep
  measurements (#2050).
* The get functionality for sweep_auto_abort and post_sweep_auto_abort
  parameters is added in Keysight B1517A and B1520A driver (#2049).
* The error handling of Keysight B1500 driver is improved. Now each time a
  parameter is set the instruments queries for the error and throws exception
  is an error is received (#2041).
* Now on_off_val_mapping is used instead of a custom parser in Agilent
  E8527D (#2030).
* The parameter limits are added for the R&S ZNB-40 VNA R&S (#2029).
* Add a few system functions to the Keithley 2450 driver (#2052)


Improved:
_________
* The DelegateParameter is now allowed to change source and also support a
  None source (#2005).
* The GroupParameter now correctly update their cache when a single
  parameter in the group has been set or captured (#2031).
* The GroupParameter now correctly implements mappings between
  ``value`` and ``raw_value`` e.g. ``scale`` and ``offset`` (#2031).
* Snapshot_base introduce new update=None, and use cache in parameter's
  snapshot_base (#1833).
* Now initial cache value can be set to the Parameter using kwarg
  ``initial_cache_val`` (#1840).
* The snapshots of stations and instruments can also be diffed now using
  diff_param_values (#2021).



Under the hood:
_______________

* New lines are now handled correctly on windows (#2026).
* In the ``Parameter`` class, the gettable/settable have become read only
  property (#2024).
* Parameter cache.get is refactored to make the logic a bit more clear. Its
  functionality remains the same (#2008).
* The loop data location in channels test is changed for pytest-xdist to work
  (#2010).
* Added new dependency: "typing_extensions" (#2048)
