Changelog for QCoDeS 0.28.0
===========================

The August 2021 release of QCoDeS.

-----------------
Breaking Changes:
-----------------

- get_guids_from_multiple_run_ids accepts connection over dbpath in the function. (#3222)

----
New:
----
- Use thread pool when acquiring parameters to save time on recreating threads, new ThreadPoolParamsCaller,
  use it in do1d, do2d, dond. (#3170)
- QCoDeS has not the ability to set a default experiment in a Python session, and now, creating/ loading an experiment
  automatically sets that experiment as the default one. (#3214)
- The dond function has gained the ability to produce multiple datasets when measuring multiple parameters. (#3186)
- Make parameter registration on instrument part of parameter init. (#3191)
- Add post sweep actions to doND sweeps. (#3283)
- load experiment functions accept duplicated experiment name, and new_experiment warns if creates duplicated
  experiment. (#3296)

---------
Improved:
---------
- Fix shapes of dond datasets with additional setpoints. (#3305)


-----------------
Improved drivers:
-----------------

- Update voltage parameter for Keithley2600 SMU to be aware of measurement status. (#3251)

---------------
Under the hood:
---------------

- Adding a Sphinx extension to document Parameter attributes. (#3224)
- Work around legacy test issue with hf51.12.1 on conda forge. (#3278)
- Make qcodes install mostly pep517/518 compliant. (#3288)
- Log all installed packages. (#3289)
- Remove pre-commit job from the repository in favor of pre-commit integration in the CI. (#3293, #3290)
- Explicitly depend on setuptools. (#3294)
