Changelog for QCoDeS 0.29.0
===========================

The September 2021 release of QCoDeS.


----
New:
----

- Simultaneous ramping feature that enables you to sweep an AMI 3D magnet to (x,y,z) in 
  time T or at vector ramp rate R, ramping all 3 axes together (in parallel) and 
  making a linear/vector trajectory from current field to the setpoint 
  in 3D magnetic field space. Please see updates to the AMI magnet driver example
  documentation. (#3233)
- Galil DMC-41x3 stepper motor controller that can be used with Janis probes for 
  moving the measurement arm. (#2626)


---------
Improved:
---------

- Documentation updates, contrib (#3375, #3370)
- Fix shapes of dond datasets with additional set-points. (#3305)
- Allow load experiment functions to accept duplicate experiment name 
  and new experiment raises warning if duplicate experiment is created. (#3296)
- Improvements to logging where we log the versions of installed packages in 
  the environment where QCoDeS runs. (#3289)
- Enables dond to take inner actions that are passed in the Sweep instances. 
  Actions for a sweep parameter will be called when the set value of that
  parameter is changed. (#3283)
- Raise ``ValueError`` if given more than one result for the same parameter name. (#3265)
- Sphinx extension that documents parameter attributes on instrument classes. 
  There are documented using a proxy object that contains a __repr__ that contains 
  the code to construct the parameter class. (#3224)


-----------------
Improved drivers:
-----------------

- Keithley 2600 SMU support to return both voltage and current compliance limit errors. (#3251, #3339, #3362)
- Make ``SR86xBufferReadout`` parameter take kwargs and pass them to base class. (#3341)


---------------
Under the hood:
---------------

- Add type packages discovered by mypy --install-types. (#3379)
- ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md updates for reporting a bug. (#3345)
- Resolved uncertainties package issues. (#3334)
- Make it possible to manually trigger codeql. (#3329)
- Logging update to explicitly set encoding for file handler. (#3327)
- Create codeql-analysis.yml recommended by github. (#3314)
- Remove redundant filters from test runner. (#3295)
- Explicitly depend on setuptools. (#3294)
- Remove precommit job that is now handled by dedicated precommit ci. (#3293)
- Make qcodes install mostly pep517/518 compliant. (#3288)
- Work around legacy test issue with hf51.12.1 on conda forge. (#3278)

