QCoDeS 0.32.0 (2022-01-24)
==========================

Breaking Changes:
-----------------

- The ``qcodes.version`` module deprecated and no longer imported by default e.g. if you want to use it you will need
  to explicitly import ``qcodes.version``. It is recommended to use ``qcodes.__version__`` as an alternative. (#3762)
- IPython measurement magic (Special command staring with % for use in IPython) using the legacy
  loop is no longer enabled by default.
  To enable it set the corresponding config value (`core.register_magic`) in your ``qcodesrc.json`` config file to true. (#3764)
- The ``import_legacy_api`` config option has been deprecated and will be removed in a future release. (#3781)


New:
----

- An abstract instrument (An instrument with one or more abstract parameters) will now raise at
  instrument creation time preventing such an instrument from being created.
  This makes it easier to define interfaces that multiple instruments must implement.
  See `here <../examples/writing_drivers/abstract_instruments.ipynb>`__ for examples of how to use
  this. (#3718)
- Improve the Keithley 2600 SMU calibration routine and make it
  a standalone executable function (#3783)
- Add ``ArraySweep`` sweep class for use with ``dond`` function
  for sweeping parameters on arbitrary arrays of values (#3847)
- The instrument channel container ``ChannelList`` has been split into a immutable ``ChannelTuple``
  and a mutable ``ChannelList``. The ``ChannelList`` class has gained a ``to_channel_tuple`` method.
  The ``lock`` method which locks a ``ChannelList`` has been retained but we do expect to deprecate
  this in the future.

  All drivers in QCoDeS have been updated to either use a ``ChannelTuple`` or a unlocked
  ``ChannelList`` as it makes sense.

  Furthermore, the ``ChannelList`` class now implements the full
  ``collections.abc.MutableSequence`` interface behaving like a python list. (#3851)


Improved:
---------

- Only register an Instrument in the list of connected instruments if the connection
  was successful. This change allows connections to be retried with the same name
  if the first attempt fails. (#3696)
- Fixed a bug with ``import_legacy_api`` config option which would trigger a circular import error. (#3781)
- Instances of ``InstrumentModule`` (and therfor their subclass ``InstrumentChannel``) are now accessible via
  the ``Instrument.instrument_modules`` dict on an instrument in addition to the ``Instrument.submodules`` dict
  which combines them with instances of ``ChannelList``. (#3834)
- ``ChannelList`` now implements the full ``collections.abc.Sequence`` interface.
   This also means that ``isinstance(mychannelist, Sequence) is True`` (#3835)
- Inserting into a ``ChannelList`` now correctly keeps the internal mapping up to date ensuring that
  ``get_channel_by_name`` works correctly. (#3838)
- ``InstrumentChannel`` now subclasses a new class ``InstrumentModule`` to clarify that instrument modules may
  serve other purposes than being channels. At the moment ``InstrumentModule`` and ``InstrumentChannel`` are identical.
  The type hints have been updated to clarify that only subclasses of ``InstrumentModule`` and ``ChannelLists``
  are allowed submodules. (#3840)
- Empty ChannelTuples/Lists now correctly raise an attribute error when trying
  to get a non existing attribute. Previously they would raise an IndexError. (#3856)


Improved Drivers:
-----------------

- Changed the value mapping of channel_selection on the AlazarTech ATS9440
  driver to fix all the combinations where channel D is involved. (#3802)
- The VISA version of the AMI driver has been improved to more robustly handle flaky communication. (#3833)
- Added a VISA version of the AMI430 driver. This is expected to be more robust with communication issues than the
  IP version of the driver. This driver exists alongside the IP version as
  ``qcodes.instrument_drivers.american_magnetics.AMI430_visa.py::AMI430``. (#3842)
