Changelog for QCoDeS 0.6.0
==========================

The September 2019 release of QCoDeS

New:
____

* Improvements to dataset performance. Especially when doing concurrent reads and writes from the db.
  The QCoDeS experiment sqlite database is now created in WAL mode. Note that if you perform a manual backup
  of a db in wal mode you should also backup any .wal file along with the .db file. See
  https://www.sqlite.org/wal.html for additional details. (#1685)
* New highlevel `tutorial for beginners <../examples/15_minutes_to_QCoDeS.ipynb>`_. (#1693)

Improved:
_________

* Improvements to API docs. (#1660, #1691, #1702, #1706)
* Notebook Dataset Performance: Correct typos and add figure. (#1683)
* Add logging to measurement runner `__exit__`. (#1695)
* Link tutorial to "Getting started", "README". (#1703)
* Don't use deprecated ``matplotlib`` ``cbar.get_clim``. (#1724)
* Make DataSet.paramspecs always return ParamSpec. (#1720)
* Add ``Station.close_all_registered_instruments``. (#1713, #1726)
* Station: fail hard when adding an ``Instrument`` with a name that is already registered. (#1714)

New Instrument drivers:
_______________________

* Rigol DS1074Z oscilloscope. (#1652)

Improved Drivers:
_________________

* Alazar: refactor `AcquisitionInterface` out of `AcquisitionController`. (#1694)
* Alazar: Fix reference to method in error message. (#1697)
* Alazar: Simulator. (#1707)
* AMI430: Fix issue with changing field unit. (#1599)
* AMI430 test: fix flakiness from asserting timestamps of Parameters. (#1718)
* Dynacool: Add blocking and non-blocking ramp. (#1586)
* Keysight B1500: Sampling Measurement mode. (#1607)
* Keysight B1500: Show connection message on init. (#1677)
* Keysight B1500: Edit example notebook to set averaging during sampling measurement. (#1696)
* Keysight N6705B: Fix syntax error in parameter. (#1669)
* Keysight B220x: Show connection message on init. (#1677)
* Keysight E8267D: Add missing parameters. (#1705, #1708)
* Lakeshore 325: Add two parameters (resistance, heater_output). (#1711)
* Yokogawa GS200: Exclude/Include snapshot depending on mode. (#1699)

Under the hood:
_______________

* Significant improvements to import time of QCoDeS. (#1678)
* Updates to requirements. (#1686, #1690, #1688)
* Use recommended way of running xvfb on Travis. (#1687)
* CI: Link commands in all scripts by their exit code, use mostly 'bash'. (#1712)
* Make test GetLatest stricter about timestamps. (#1719)
* Test using python 3.8 prerelease. (#1722)

Breaking Changes:
_________________

* The default config value for ``gui.plotlib`` has changed from ``"all"`` to ``null``. This means the
  legacy plot modules ``MatPlot`` and ``QtPlot`` are no longer imported into the top level qcodes namespace by
  default. To restore the original behaviour change your config file locally.
* ``capture_dataframe`` is no longer available from ``qcodes.logger``. To use it import it
  from ``qcodes.logger.log_analysis``.
* Deprecate old QDac driver in favour of QCac_channels driver. (#1578)
* Adding an instrument to the QCoDeS station with an already existing name is now a hard error rather
  than falling back to constructing a new unique name.(#1713)
* Deprecate ``qcodes.utils.helpers.make_unique`` as it is unused in QCoDeS. (#1713)
