Changelog for QCoDeS 0.8.0
==========================

The November 2019 release of QCoDeS

New:
____

* Introduce 'safe experiment abort' feature: On ctrl-c the running experiment
  will be halted, but ongoing VISA commands will be completed and all captured
  data will be written to the database, so that the system is left in a clean
  state.
  A second 'ctrl-c' event will stop the execution without any of those safty
  measures and will thereby reproduce the previous behavior of a single 'ctrl-c'.
  (#1701)
* Added validation of station configuration files, including live
  linting and auto-complete features for vscode (#1759).
* Enable setting parameters on ``ChannelLists`` in the station config file (#1785)


Improved:
_________

* Complete overhaul of the parameter cache including ``GetLatest``.
  This improves API experience, removes dangerous bugs as well as sources of
  potential new bugs. (#1757, #1790, #1789, #1768, #1787, #1788, #1827, #1832)
* Enable logging from multiple processes at the same time (#1816)
* Documentation: Add new documentation (DataSet #1715), remove outdated
  documentation (#1779) and improve existing.
  (#1780, #1771, #1770, #1781, #1777, #1798, #1803)
* Added more and fixed type Annotations.
  (#1769, #1797, #1794, #1795, #1807, #1811, #1814, #1815, #1817, #1822)
* Added ``name`` kwarg for initialising ``Measurement`` objects (#1741)
* Bugfix: properly write complex standalone parameter to DB (#1823)
* consistent ``snapshot_base`` signatures. (#1768)
* enable customized log messages for measurement start and end events (#1808)

New Instrument drivers:
_______________________

* Driver for AimTTi Pl601-P (#1763)


Under the hood:
_______________

* Deprecation decorator for classes (#1805, #1806)
* Improved CI/CD (#1774)
* Make tests less flaky (#1772, #1826)
* Docs build on sphinx 2.2.0 (#1783)
* Getting ready for python 3.8 (#1793)
* Mypy version 0.740 adaption (#1794)
* Consistent linting through ``.pylintrc`` (#1804)
* Fix local docs built (#1803)



Breaking Changes:
_________________

* The ``name`` and ``short_name`` attributes of ``InstrumentBase`` became
  read-only properties because it should not be possible to change them on
  an instantiated instrument. (#1820)

* deferred operations have been removed (#1818).

Deprecations:
_____________

* There has been a great contribution of community drivers over the years and
  and encourage the community to further contribute. To ensure a continued high
  quality standard of the 'core' drivers and reduce the latencies of contributed
  drivers we split out drivers for devices that are not being used within the
  Microsoft Quantum Program into a separate repository that will be community
  maintained. Find the ``qcodes_contrib_drivers`` here:
  https://github.com/QCoDeS/Qcodes_contrib_drivers
* Module ``qcodes.utils.zmq_helpers`` (#1819)


Recommended Dependencies:
_________________________

* numpy 1.16.4->1.17

* pyvisa 1.10->1.10.1

* websockets 8.0.2->8.1
